# VBA-challenge
  This repository contains a VBA script that will analyze stock data and populate the summarized results in a table.
# Usage
  This script is useful for excel tables that contain stock information. Specifically these tables should have the following information: stock ticker, date of entry recording, open price, high price, low price, close price, and volume with each day being a single entry. To run this code, the worksheet titled "Multiple_year_stock_data.xlsx" should be saved as a new macro enabled work book, paste the code from the VBS file, and run within excel.
# Code Source
  The function that is found in line 25 of the VBS code that will make the loop go to the bottom row was received from my tutor Sharon Colson. The rest of the code was created from working knowledge of the language.  
# File Structure
  There are two folders and two files of note. The folder images contains examples of what the results should look like, these are titled "easy_solution.png","hard_solution.png", and "moderate_solution.png", as well as the results the code generated titled "2018 results.PNG", "2019 results.PNG", and "2020 results.PNG". Finally this folder contains a stock image of the stock market titled "stockmarket.jpg". The other folder of note is titled "Resources" and it contains the worksheets that the code was developed for. "Multiple_year_stock_data.xlsx" is where the code is run, "Multiple_year_stock_data.xlsm" shows the worksheet after the code has been run and the results. "alphabetical_testing.xlsx" and "alphabetical_testing.xlsm" were worksheets used to test the code. The file "stock.vbs" is the final VBA script used for the project and the file "README.md" contains the information on what the code is, how to run it, and the results.
# Data
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only. Multiple_year_stock_data.xlsx contains the data this script is meant to be run on.
# Results
For each year, the stock with the greatest percentage of price increase, the lowest percentage of price increase, and the greatest total volume was found. For 2018, the greatest percent increase was 141.2% for THB, the greatest percent decrease was -90.02% for RKS, and the greatest total volume was 1.68954E+12 for QKN. For 2019, the greatest percent increase was 190.03% for RKS, the greatest percent decrease was -91.60% for RKS, and the greatest total volume was 4.37301E+12 for ZQD. For 2020, the greatest percent increase was 188.76% for YDI, the greatest percent decrease was -89.05% for VNG, and the greatest total volume was 3.45296E+12 for QKN.
